And I have the pleasure of being in Corpus Christi
and chatting with Dick Connolly, the president of
the association 1958 and 1959. Now I'll stop and
hope that the machine is working.
Mr. Connolly, as we begin, Tell me, why did you go to
A&M? How did you happen to get to A&M in the first
place? Well, back in the days of the time I
graduated from high school in 1931, there were
tough times for most people, and my father had gone
through two very serious business failures. One
due to World War I in Athens, Georgia where I was
born. He was an automobile dealer. When the war
came along, he could no longer get cars and his
business folded as a result. He picked Palm Beach,
Florida to go to get into the real estate business
for seeking hopefully to get a place where he could
make a living for his four children and my mother
Dixie. There we lived for about four years during
the Florida boom but again there were two Florida
hurricanes came along and a boom burst in Venice
and Wall Street and it was jumping out of windows
and his business there folded, so he picked Corpus
Christi, Texas. That's going a long way around to
tell you how tough things were for us and many other
people in those days, but he couldn't help me go to
college. So when I graduated, I was working as a
shipping autoclick for the Ranges Converse
Company here in Corpus Christi, watching the
boats go in and out of our harbor. And I was
fortunate enough to have a friend who I thought
might know some of the Likes brothers, Ripley
Steamship Company people, and she did, Mr. Roy,
Ms. Roy Miller, who at that time was, I believe, the
mayor of the city. Anyway, he got me a job and I spent
two years nearly two years at sea as a deck boy and
ordinary seaman, which was a great experience,
but still didn't get me to make me enough money to go
to college. One day I was dating a very lovely girl
named Bernice Wilder, the daughter of a state road
contractor. I came to pick her up late one
afternoon to take her to a picture show at a summer
fair and was met by her father, Harry Wilder, at the
door and said to come in and that Bernice would be
down shortly. So we went out on the porch, didn't
have any air conditioning back in those days, and
sat in the swing and we visited a bit and he said,
Dick, why don't you go to college? I said, well, Mr.
Wilder, I haven't been able to afford to go to
college. I'd love to go to college. He said, well,
if you had a job at Texas A&M, say, for instance,
could you go to college? I said, Mr. Wilder, if I had
a job, I could make it anywhere. And he put his arm
around my shoulder and took me to the bottom of the
stairs of his home there and picked up the
telephone and dialed some numbers and Got Bob
Ferguson, the governor at that time, on the line.
After swapping a few pleasances with her, he said,
Miss Ferguson, I have a young friend that I'm very
interested in. I'd like to see him have the
opportunity to go to college. I wonder if you could
get him a job at Texas A&M this coming fall. They
talked back and forth and he hung up, put his arm
around me and he says, now, Nick, you've got a job at
A&M. You go up there. And so on the strength of that,
no letter, no any other thing, I hitchhiked for
motor transportation mainly back in those days
with my big suitcase. I got into A&M about sundown,
I remember, late one evening. The first, as I
walked in from the old train station there on the
highway, heading toward Old Main, the first
building on my left was Law Hall. That's where the A
Troop Cavalry was. That was one of the best the good
Lord was looking after me because I went in there
and asked directions. They said, well, come right
on in here. We got a bunk for you. So I joined the A
Troop Cavalry at that time. Well, the second day
after I registered, My name was called over the
loudspeaker at Savisa Hall, I believe it is, at
West Hall, Cadet R.N. Connolly, report to
Secretary S.G. Bailey at the main administration
building. Well, I had to get directions where to go
down there, and I, right after lunch, I walked down
and walked into that beautiful new
administration building, which, thank
goodness, has recently been named the Jack
Williamson Building. I was amazed at his beauty,
and I overcome with it, really, and I walked up
those parallel stairs to Mr. Bailey's office. I
was rushing in by his secretary, and I looked at Mr.
Bailey, and he looked at me, and he said, Son, are
you Cadet R.N. Connolly? I said, Yes, sir, Mr.
Bailey. He said, well, son, you've got some
powerful friends. So through the goodness of a
friend, Harry Wilder, and his friendship with
Governor Mark Ferguson, I had a job from the day I
entered A&M to the day I left. It wasn't an easy job.
because I had to get up around 4.30 or 5 every
morning and sweep. My building was the old civil
engineering building. That was my
responsibility. I swept it from top to bottom,
cleaned the waste paper baskets, and on
Saturdays, cleaned the windows, trimmed the
shrubs, cut the grass, if I remember, and cleaned
the crappers. Let's see, describe that trip from
Corpus Christi to College Station, that first
trip. Did you go the whole way by train or hitchhike
part of it? Well, my father wanted, was so proud
that I was going to A&M. He had gone to the
University of Georgia two years, but had left to go
into business for himself. But he had to go to
Houston on business, so he took me as far as
Hempstead, I believe, or Hempstead, and let me out
there and I hitchhiked with my big suitcase. What
did you have in that suitcase? What did a freshman
take to college in that era? Back in those days, you
know, not much different than it is today, I don't
imagine, in that sense I had Knowing that I was
going to go, really wanted to go into the Corps, I
researched that a little bit and the government
was going to be furnishing me a uniform. I had the
best of whatever way I had. I had a good suit in there
and a lot of changes of shirt and underwear and
whatever I felt like I needed but haven't been a
deck boy, an ordinary seaman on a ship, I learned to
get around and get along with very little in a way of
fancy clothes. Please describe the campus when
you arrived physically. What buildings were
there and where were they? Where did people live?
Well, you know, back in those days, we had a
relatively small student body. It was probably
around 6,000, maybe 6,500 if I'm not mistaken. And
we each had this, we were all military and we had a
rather versatile military organization there
with many different types of choices. I picked the
cavalry. Because before you went up there, I had
made up my mind that's where I wanted to go because I
loved horses and to me it was the elite service,
just like the Air Force later became the, you might
say, the elite service.
But the law hall was right next to another hall. I
can't remember all those hall numbers, right
close to the YMCA, which was a very important focal
point on the campus in those days. Down in the
basement, Casey had his Sparks, and if I'm not
mistaken, there was a barbershop down there, and
they had their pharmacy where we could go down and
get a milkshake every now and then, but mainly we
made friends quickly with Sparks and Casey. Casey
particularly was a great individual, and I'll
have to tell you a story about Casey later. But to
answer your story, a lot of the buildings that were
there then have been torn down now. Old Main was
there. Many of our classes were in Old Main. And the
headquarters for the university were down in the
new administration building pretty well. They
didn't have a system back in those days, or any
system building of course, but we did have a
coliseum there for,
we had our intramural athletics. The intramural
athletics formed a big part of taking the energy
out of those students. We didn't have any women
around, So we all took parts, and we got up early in
the morning. We went all day, and in the afternoon,
we had a spare time. We were out there playing
intramural sports. Describe what it was like to be
a fish in that era. How was a fish treated in his
outfit? Well, they were treated like fish. In a
sense, newcomers had to be trained. I was never
treated unkindly unless I voted on myself. We had
the military system that we had as far as my A Troop
Calvary was concerned and what I observed from
others. They picked good leaders who had good
character and with good leadership roles. I know
my captain was, my freshman year there was Zeb
Burke. B-U-R-K? B-U-R-K, yeah. And I don't know
what ever happened to Zeb, but I couldn't stay in
touch with him. His top kick was Ed Neal, who later
moved to Beeville and was the extension director
there, and a noted
specialist in Hawaiian animal health and did a
great job at that Beeville Experimental Station
throughout his career, where he ended up and is now
farming there now. was a very kindly person who
took an interest in all the freshmen and so did
Frank Schleicher, the top kick to him. And they all
were gentlemen, they all treated you fairly. But
if you stepped out of line, you could get a whack on
your butt. And I did that occasionally. I stepped
out of line until I learned that that wasn't the
thing to do. I remember one Sunday morning, I had
presented up out late at night
on one Saturday night. I figured, well, no one's
going to be around here Sunday. They're all going
to Austin. I'm just going to lock this door and
sleep in. And nobody knows the difference. Of
course, I was supposed to be up even on Sunday
morning and checking to see what the and the top
kicker and the others might need to help them shine
their shoes and boots and so forth. But so the next
morning when I heard outside, I heard Zeb Berger
say, oh, Ed Lee, Ed Neal, well, these freshmen, I
need somebody to shine my boots. Oh, I need someone
to get me some coffee. No answer from anywhere, no
freshmen around. Well, where's Dick Conley? I
thought he was going to be here this weekend. No
answer. I heard all this behind a locked door. I
said, oh my gosh. Anyway, Frank said, the top kick
said, well, look, I've got a key to Conley's room.
I'll go in there and get his polishing kit. And
we'll see if we can clean our own boots. So he opened
the door and there I was in the sack. Well, they gave
me a lesson that I'll not remember, not forget. And
I never did anything like that again, but it was a
good lesson. Did you all do duck walks and other
things like that? Well, you know, they were very
considerate of me because I was working my way
through school, and they knew it. They knew I was a
janitor, and I got up early every morning, 4.35 or
4, while they were still in the psych, and they
respected that. And because of that, I was never
subject to any type of tomfoolery, you might say,
Some of the others didn't have to put up with all in
the name of good training. But I was getting that
good training another way. Describe a typical day
of classes from the time you got up till the time you
went to bed that night. What happened when and for
how long? Well, when the bugle sounded, we were put
on our socks, jumped out of that bed and made it
quickly in an army style and cleaned up. And then we
raced down to get in line, line up as we had three
formations a day to go into the mess hall. And
where'd y'all line up? We'd line up right in front
on the street, right in front of Law Hall. Okay. We
had our top kicks and we had our sergeants who were
there to keep us in line and we took pride in our
marching and always had as we went into the mess,
oh, there's a piece of a roar of some song or
something we were singing. It was all a lot of
camaraderie and Those men who lined up with me were
lifelong friends, like Omar Smith was a
cavalryman, and Omar went on to have the tennis
court named after him, and I can tell a different
story about, well, later, about Omar that might
not be a proper place for it here, but those friends
were lifelong friends. All right, you... You got
up, the Reveille was at what time? Got up usually
about 6 o'clock or 6.30. I guess it was around 6.30
because we were lined up at 7 and the mess hall about
7.30 if I remember and maybe 6 o'clock, 6.30, 7.
Well, we were in full classes. It was 8 o'clock
every morning. And we walked everywhere we went. A
few people had bicycles, but as you looked at the
A&M campus, it was just students walking
everywhere with hooks under their arms and a sling
over their shoulder. All right, then before
lunch, did you fall in again? We fell in again
before lunch. And the same here at night and in the
evening. Usually the evening performance was a
little more special than the one at noon. And
sometimes at noon, we had formation three times a
day. All right, after supper, what was the typical
routine on a weeknight? Did you go back to your
room? Did you go play somewhere? We had a little
camaraderie usually over our meal in the evening,
and usually we'd get out with a few of our buddies
and walk around the lounge under the shade of a tree
and bowl a little bit. But we all had studies, and I
had to get up early the next morning, so it was a
routine for me to pretty well head back to my room
and go to work. All right. Describe the routine in
Sabisa Hall at mealtime for a freshman. Where did
you sit and what did you all do during the meal?
Well, the best I can remember Of course, so many of
us, they didn't shave my head. My head was short,
necessarily, anyway. Very little shaving back in
those days. But we sat, it was, on the property, we
sat extremely correct. And we had, of course,
certain rules we had to follow. And the officers
and A couple of freshmen were fed, always served by
the freshmen first. And we got what was left, but it
was always plenty. And if we
particularly Fond of dessert, we would usually
stick an extra piece of pie, a sweet roll or
something under our shirt and carry it out
frequently. Did the food have nicknames in those
days? Oh, yes. Please share some of those
nicknames. Well, dessert was kush always, and I
recall meat was
bull. Bull neck? Well,
they had a nickname for practically every one of
them, most of the vegetables. And meat, bull neck,
bull neck for meat. Bread,
ketchup, tea. For everything they had some sort of
nickname. I don't remember all the details. uh
let's see uh was your freshman roommate did he
become a special friend i had three roommates
unfortunately unfortunately my first one was
paul moore paul moore was a great young man from
beeville taking veterinary science and paul
moore It was difficult for him to concentrate and
he had trouble and he had to drop out at the end of his
first semester.
But Paul went ahead and did graduate from a vet
school and became the number two veterinarian at
King Ranch. He worked for Dr. Northrup and got some
valuable training. And just a wonderful man with a
lot of personality, but he had one weakness, and
that was barley corn. And as so many people at the
King Ranch did, he drank too much and it affected
his life. And the other one following him was
Cliff Hardwick. how do we get a gin people out of
Sherman? And he was a sort of a privileged young man
because his father was a manufacturer and rather
wealthy, I think, because he was one of the few that
had money and had an automobile off campus. But
Cliff was a good friend, but we just didn't have the
right chemistry. and he
went to room with someone else the following
semester. He was killed, incidentally, in one of
the first horse cavalry episodes in the
Philippines. The machine gun was killed there
early. But Cliff was always a good friend. And then
I had... Ralph McCambell, a rancher from
Hebronville. He was a sophomore while I was a
junior.
Yeah, when I was a sophomore, he was a freshman,
came as a freshman, but I wanted him because he was a
Corpus Christi. Your outfit was very special to
you as you look back on it, your core outfit. What
made it special? leadership and the friends that I
made there and the camaraderie and
the pride in their unit. And a troop was always a
special troop and a cavalry of the elite service as
far as we were concerned. And I think it's pretty
well recognized at that time back in those days
that the cavalry won. Did you all have a nickname
for the outfit? No, it just stayed true. How did you
describe your dress when you went to class? What
did you wear to class? Well, the government issued
you your Army uniform, and that was part of being in
the military and taking the military, and we wore a
uniform religiously. Please describe some of the
pranks or the jokes or the good bull that you were
aware of that occurred while you were a student.
Well, there again, I worked so hard, I say worked so
hard, I had such a regimen that was so full I was
interested in acrobatics and had an opportunity
through Penny to work with the tumbling team. And
then I was in the cavalry and very quickly got
involved in polo and in monkey drill squad. And
that's something a lot of people never heard of.
But the monkey drill squad was an acrobatic and
trick riding group. And we had an old army sergeant
who was an artist at this type of thing, and he
trained us. Tell them about that. I've not heard
about the Monkey Drill Squad before. Well, I've
got some pictures of it, I'm sure to you. We had a...
With his help and Captain Robertson, we had two
outstanding cavalry officers. Major Ross Irvin
and Captain Marcella Roberts. And they were both
unusually well qualified
men with lots of interest and humor
and made the cavalry work we did interesting. And
of course
we did the hoodoos and we camped. trained to shoot
.50 caliber machine guns. We fired pistol mounted
and dismounted. We were expert at sharpshooter
and we were always into things that were active and
fun. Where did, where were the cavalry horses
stabled? They had a special stable area there like
West of the tracks? Oh yes, west of the tracks,
there was. How many horses have... Well, I think
there must have been 40, 50 horses, or better,
maybe 60, 70, that we had of that group where the
sergeant, I wish I could name his name, was
bald-headed, red-faced, short, stout, tough as a
bull and he knew those horses and he picked the best
ones for our monkey trail squad because we would
ride them bareback with a surcingle and you'd
stand on the horse and ride in a circle in a corral
you might say and then we'd ride two abreast and
three abreast and we'd build pyramids and then we
would through the use of the search angle, you'd
vault from one side of the horse to the other as you
galloped. And you would learn to let the momentum
of the horse as it swung forward to bring you back up
in standing position. And it had a lot of romance to
it and a lot of fun. Where did you all perform? Well,
we performed like the polo team, you know, at
different times it was announced. And mainly it
was an activity that didn't get much publicity,
but it was done because we all enjoyed it so much.
Kind of like an NMU sport, didn't get a whole lot of
publicity. How different was it in that time to be a
sophomore in the Corps of Cadets than to be a
freshman? Describe being a sophomore for me.
Well, as a sophomore, I never was hazed myself, you
know. As I say, I paddled a few times pretty hard.
But if I did, I deserved it. And I knew I deserved it.
And I knew whatever infraction I did, that I'd
probably get a good filing from one of them. But it
was administered in a manly way and in a fair way.
And, you know, it was never an abusive thing. And
the sophomores,
of course, we We had these various different
traditional things that they did. But I didn't
take part in most of them because of my work or the
work that I had to do. And they respected that. Any
of us that had jobs like I had in the janitor corps
that was demanding and got you up real early, they
made special dispensation for that. An important
question. Please describe some of the important
teachers and advisors that affected your life
there. Well, I was always tried to be I was
interested in my subjects and the toughest thing
was my chemistry.